README.md, before:

<p align="center"><img src="logo.png"></p>

## Pay

### Payments engine for Ruby on Rails

[![Build Status](https://github.com/excid3/pay/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/excid3/pay/actions)

Pay is a payments engine for Ruby on Rails 4.2 and higher.

**Current Payment Providers**

- Stripe ([supports SCA](https://stripe.com/docs/strong-customer-authentication), API version [2019-03-14](https://stripe.com/docs/upgrades#2019-03-14) or higher required)
- Braintree

Want to add a new payment provider? Contributions are welcome and the instructions [are here](https://github.com/jasoncharnes/pay/wiki/New-Payment-Provider).

## Installation

Add these lines to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'pay', '~> 2.0'

# To use Stripe, also include:
gem 'stripe', '< 6.0', '>= 2.8'
gem 'stripe_event', '~> 2.3'

# To use Braintree + PayPal, also include:
gem 'braintree', '< 3.0', '>= 2.92.0'

# To use Receipts
gem 'receipts', '~> 1.0.0'
```

And then execute:

```bash
bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:

```bash
gem install pay
```

## Setup

### Migrations

This engine will create a subscription model and the neccessary migrations for the model you want to make "billable." The most common use case for the billable model is a User.

To add the migrations to your application, run the following migration:

`$ bin/rails pay:install:migrations`

This will install four migrations:

- db/migrate/create_subscriptions.pay.rb
- db/migrate/add_fields_to_users.pay.rb
- db/migrate/create_charges.pay.rb
- db/migrate/add_status_to_subscriptions.pay.rb

### The Billable Module

To enable payments for a model, you simply include the `Pay::Billable`
module in it. By default, we assume this is `User`.

If you'd like to use a different model, you can configure it in an
initializer:

```ruby
Pay.setup do |config|
  # Make the billable class the same name as your ActiveRecord model
  config.billable_class = "Team"

  # Make the billable table the same name as your ActiveRecord table name for the model
  # This is optional.
  # Once you update the billable class, the table name will use the ActiveRecord inflected table name
  config.billable_table = "teams"
end
```

#### Run the Migrations

Finally, run the migrations with `$ rake db:migrate`

####  Getting NoMethodError?

`NoMethodError (undefined method 'stripe_customer' for #<User:0x00007fbc34b9bf20>)`

Fully restart your Rails application `bin/spring stop && rails s`

## Payment Providers

We support both Stripe and Braintree and make our best attempt to
standardize the two. They function differently so keep that in mind if
you plan on doing more complex payments. It would be best to stick with
a single payment provider in that case so you don't run into
discrepancies.

#### Braintree

```yaml
development:
  braintree:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    merchant_id: zzzz
    environment: sandbox
```

#### Stripe

You'll need to add your private Stripe API key to your Rails secrets `config/secrets.yml`, credentials `rails credentials:edit`. In the Stripe portal, `private_key` is known as "Secret Key", and `public_key` is known as "Publishable key". 

```yaml
development:
  stripe:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    signing_secret: zzzz
```

You can also use the `STRIPE_PRIVATE_KEY` and `STRIPE_SIGNING_SECRET` environment variables.

**To see how to use Stripe Elements JS & Devise, [click here](https://github.com/jasoncharnes/pay/wiki/Using-Stripe-Elements-and-Devise).**

##### Strong Customer Authentication (SCA)

Our Stripe integration **requires** the use of Payment Method objects to correctly support Strong Customer Authentication with Stripe. If you've previously been using card tokens, you'll need to upgrade your Javascript integration.

Subscriptions that require SCA are marked as `incomplete` by default.
Once payment is authenticated, Stripe will send a webhook updating the
status of the subscription. You'll need to use the [Stripe CLI](https://github.com/stripe/stripe-cli) to forward
webhooks to your application to make sure your subscriptions work
correctly for SCA payments.

```bash
stripe listen --forward-to localhost:3000/pay/webhooks/stripe
```

You should use `stripe.handleCardSetup` on the client to collect card information anytime you want to save the card and charge them later (adding a card, then charging them on the next page for example). Use `stripe.handleCardPayment` if you'd like to charge the customer immediately (think checking out of a shopping cart).

The Javascript will now need to use createPaymentMethod instead of createToken. https://stripe.com/docs/js/payment_intents/create_payment_method

The Javascript also needs to have a PaymentIntent or SetupIntent created server-side and the ID passed into the Javascript to do this. That way it knows how to safely handle the card tokenization if it meets the SCA requirements.

**Payment Confirmations**

Sometimes you'll have a payment that requires extra authentication. In this case, Pay provides a webhook and action for handling these payments. It will automatically email the customer and provide a link with the PaymentIntent ID in the url where the customer will be asked to fill out their name and card number to confirm the payment. Once done, they'll be redirected back to your application.

If you'd like to change the views of the payment confirmation page, you can install the views using the generator and modify the template.

[<img src="https://d1jfzjx68gj8xs.cloudfront.net/items/2s3Z0J3Z3b1J1v2K2O1a/Screen%20Shot%202019-10-10%20at%2012.56.32%20PM.png?X-CloudApp-Visitor-Id=51470" alt="Stripe SCA Payment Confirmation" style="zoom: 25%;" />](https://d1jfzjx68gj8xs.cloudfront.net/items/2s3Z0J3Z3b1J1v2K2O1a/Screen%20Shot%202019-10-10%20at%2012.56.32%20PM.png)

#### Background jobs

If a user's email is updated and they have a `processor_id` set, Pay will enqueue a background job (EmailSyncJob) to sync the email with the payment processor.

It's important you set a queue_adapter for this to happen. If you don't, the code will be executed immediately upon user update. [More information here](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v4.2/active_job_basics.html#backends)

## Usage

Include the `Pay::Billable` module in the model you want to know about subscriptions.

```ruby
# app/models/user.rb
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  include Pay::Billable
end
```

To sync over customer names, your `Billable` model should respond to the `first_name` and `last_name` methods. Pay will sync these over to your Customer objects in Stripe and Braintree.

## Configuration

Need to make some changes to how Pay is used? You can create an initializer `config/initializers/pay.rb`

```ruby
Pay.setup do |config|
  config.billable_class = 'User'
  config.billable_table = 'users'

  config.chargeable_class = 'Pay::Charge'
  config.chargeable_table = 'pay_charges'

  # For use in the receipt/refund/renewal mailers
  config.business_name = "Business Name"
  config.business_address = "1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW"
  config.application_name = "My App"
  config.support_email = "helpme@example.com"

  config.send_emails = true

  config.automount_routes = true
  config.routes_path = "/pay" # Only when automount_routes is true
end
```

This allows you to create your own Charge class for instance, which could add receipt functionality:

```ruby
class Charge < Pay::Charge
  def receipts
    # do some receipts stuff using the https://github.com/excid3/receipts gem
  end
end

Pay.setup do |config|
  config.chargeable_class = 'Charge'
end
```

### Credentials

You'll need to add your private Stripe API key to your Rails secrets `config/secrets.yml`, credentials `rails credentials:edit`

```yaml
development:
  stripe:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    signing_secret: zzzz
  braintree:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    merchant_id: aaaa
    environment: sandbox
```

For Stripe, you can also use the `STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY`, `STRIPE_PRIVATE_KEY` and `STRIPE_SIGNING_SECRET` environment variables.
For Braintree, you can also use `BRAINTREE_MERCHANT_ID`, `BRAINTREE_PUBLIC_KEY`, `BRAINTREE_PRIVATE_KEY`, and `BRAINTREE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variables.

### Generators

If you want to modify the Stripe SCA template or any other views, you can copy over the view files using:

```bash
bin/rails generate pay:views
```

If you want to modify the email templates, you can copy over the view files using:

```bash
bin/rails generate pay:email_views
```

### Emails

Emails can be enabled/disabled using the `send_emails` configuration option (enabled per default). When enabled, the following emails will be sent:

- When a charge succeeded
- When a charge was refunded
- When a subscription is about to renew

## Billable API

#### Trials

You can check if the user is on a trial by simply asking:

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.on_trial? #=> true or false
```

The `on_trial?` method has two optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.on_trial?(name: 'default', plan: 'plan') #=> true or false
```

#### Generic Trials

For trials that don't require cards upfront:

```ruby
user = User.create(
  email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co',
  trial_ends_at: 30.days.from_now
)

user.on_generic_trial? #=> true
```

#### Creating a Charge

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor = 'stripe'
user.card_token = 'payment_method_id'
user.charge(1500) # $15.00 USD

user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor = 'braintree'
user.card_token = 'nonce'
user.charge(1500) # $15.00 USD
```

The `charge` method takes the amount in cents as the primary argument.

You may pass optional arguments that will be directly passed on to
either Stripe or Braintree. You can use these options to charge
different currencies, etc.

#### Creating a Subscription

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor = 'stripe'
user.card_token = 'payment_method_id'
user.subscribe
```

A `card_token` must be provided as an attribute.

The subscribe method has three optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
def subscribe(name: 'default', plan: 'default', **options)
  ...
end
```

##### Name

Name is an internally used name for the subscription.

##### Plan

Plan is the plan ID from the payment processor.

##### Options

By default, the trial specified on the subscription will be used.

`trial_period_days: 30` can be set to override and a trial to the subscription. This works the same for Braintree and Stripe.

#### Retrieving a Subscription from the Database

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'gob@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription
```

A subscription can be retrieved by name, too.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'gob@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription(name: 'bananastand+')
```

#### Checking a User's Trial/Subscription Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'george.senior@bluthcompany.co')
user.on_trial_or_subscribed?
```

The `on_trial_or_subscribed?` method has two optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
def on_trial_or_subscribed?(name: 'default', plan: nil)
  ...
end
```

#### Checking a User's Subscription Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'george.senior@bluthcompany.co')
user.subscribed?
```

The `subscribed?` method has two optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
def subscribed?(name: 'default', plan: nil)
  ...
end
```

##### Name

Name is an internally used name for the subscription.

##### Plan

Plan is the plan ID from the payment processor.

#### Retrieving a Payment Processor Account

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'george.michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.customer #> Stripe or Braintree customer account
```

#### Updating a Customer's Credit Card

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'tobias@bluthcompany.co')

user.update_card('payment_method_id')
```

#### Retrieving a Customer's Subscription from the Processor

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'lucille@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor_subscription(subscription_id) #=> Stripe or Braintree Subscription
```

## Subscription API

#### Checking a Subscription's Trial Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'lindsay@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.on_trial? #=> true or false
```

#### Checking a Subscription's Cancellation Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'buster@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.cancelled? #=> true or false
```

#### Checking a Subscription's Grace Period Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'her?@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.on_grace_period? #=> true or false
```

#### Checking to See If a Subscription Is Active

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'carl.weathers@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.active? #=> true or false
```

#### Cancel a Subscription (At End of Billing Cycle)

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'oscar@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.cancel
```

#### Cancel a Subscription Immediately

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'annyong@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.cancel_now!
```

#### Swap a Subscription to another Plan

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'steve.holt@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.swap("yearly")
```

#### Resume a Subscription on a Grace Period

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'steve.holt@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.resume
```

#### Retrieving the Subscription from the Processor

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'lucille2@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.processor_subscription
```

### Customizing Pay Models

Want to add methods to `Pay::Subscription` or `Pay::Charge`? You can
define a concern and simply include it in the model when Rails loads the
code.

Pay uses the `to_prepare` method to allow concerns to be
included every time Rails reloads the models in development as well.

```ruby
# app/models/concerns/subscription_extensions.rb
module SubscriptionExtensions
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    # associations and other class level things go here
  end

  # instance methods and code go here
end
```

```ruby
# config/initializers/subscription_extensions.rb

# Re-include the SubscriptionExtensions every time Rails reloads
Rails.application.config.to_prepare do
  Pay.subscription_model.include SubscriptionExtensions
end
```

## Routes & Webhooks

Routes are automatically mounted to `/pay` by default.

We provide a route for confirming SCA payments at `/pay/payments/:payment_intent_id`

Webhooks are automatically mounted at `/pay/webhooks/{provider}`

#### Customizing webhook mount path

If you have a catch all route (for 404s etc) and need to control where/when the webhook endpoints mount, you will need to disable automatic mounting and mount the engine above your catch all route.

```ruby
# config/initializers/pay.rb
config.automount_routes = false

# config/routes.rb
mount Pay::Engine, at: '/secret-webhook-path'
```

If you just want to modify where the engine mounts it's routes then you can change the path.

```ruby
# config/initializers/pay.rb

config.routes_path = '/secret-webhook-path'
```

## Contributors

- [Jason Charnes](https://twitter.com/jmcharnes)
- [Chris Oliver](https://twitter.com/excid3)

## Contributing

👋 Thanks for your interest in contributing. Feel free to fork this repo.

If you have an issue you'd like to submit, please do so using the issue tracker in GitHub. In order for us to help you in the best way possible, please be as detailed as you can.

If you'd like to open a PR please make sure the following things pass:

- `rake test`

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

add info about Stripe signing_secret

README.md, after:

<p align="center"><img src="logo.png"></p>

## Pay

### Payments engine for Ruby on Rails

[![Build Status](https://github.com/excid3/pay/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/excid3/pay/actions)

Pay is a payments engine for Ruby on Rails 4.2 and higher.

**Current Payment Providers**

- Stripe ([supports SCA](https://stripe.com/docs/strong-customer-authentication), API version [2019-03-14](https://stripe.com/docs/upgrades#2019-03-14) or higher required)
- Braintree

Want to add a new payment provider? Contributions are welcome and the instructions [are here](https://github.com/jasoncharnes/pay/wiki/New-Payment-Provider).

## Installation

Add these lines to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'pay', '~> 2.0'

# To use Stripe, also include:
gem 'stripe', '< 6.0', '>= 2.8'
gem 'stripe_event', '~> 2.3'

# To use Braintree + PayPal, also include:
gem 'braintree', '< 3.0', '>= 2.92.0'

# To use Receipts
gem 'receipts', '~> 1.0.0'
```

And then execute:

```bash
bundle
```

Or install it yourself as:

```bash
gem install pay
```

## Setup

### Migrations

This engine will create a subscription model and the neccessary migrations for the model you want to make "billable." The most common use case for the billable model is a User.

To add the migrations to your application, run the following migration:

`$ bin/rails pay:install:migrations`

This will install four migrations:

- db/migrate/create_subscriptions.pay.rb
- db/migrate/add_fields_to_users.pay.rb
- db/migrate/create_charges.pay.rb
- db/migrate/add_status_to_subscriptions.pay.rb

### The Billable Module

To enable payments for a model, you simply include the `Pay::Billable`
module in it. By default, we assume this is `User`.

If you'd like to use a different model, you can configure it in an
initializer:

```ruby
Pay.setup do |config|
  # Make the billable class the same name as your ActiveRecord model
  config.billable_class = "Team"

  # Make the billable table the same name as your ActiveRecord table name for the model
  # This is optional.
  # Once you update the billable class, the table name will use the ActiveRecord inflected table name
  config.billable_table = "teams"
end
```

#### Run the Migrations

Finally, run the migrations with `$ rake db:migrate`

####  Getting NoMethodError?

`NoMethodError (undefined method 'stripe_customer' for #<User:0x00007fbc34b9bf20>)`

Fully restart your Rails application `bin/spring stop && rails s`

## Payment Providers

We support both Stripe and Braintree and make our best attempt to
standardize the two. They function differently so keep that in mind if
you plan on doing more complex payments. It would be best to stick with
a single payment provider in that case so you don't run into
discrepancies.

#### Braintree

```yaml
development:
  braintree:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    merchant_id: zzzz
    environment: sandbox
```

#### Stripe

You'll need to add your private Stripe API key to your Rails secrets `config/secrets.yml`, credentials `rails credentials:edit`. In the Stripe portal, `private_key` is known as "Secret Key", and `public_key` is known as "Publishable key". Your "signing_secret" will be generated when you login via the Stripe CLI (see below). 

```yaml
development:
  stripe:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    signing_secret: zzzz
```

You can also use the `STRIPE_PRIVATE_KEY` and `STRIPE_SIGNING_SECRET` environment variables.

**To see how to use Stripe Elements JS & Devise, [click here](https://github.com/jasoncharnes/pay/wiki/Using-Stripe-Elements-and-Devise).**

##### Strong Customer Authentication (SCA)

Our Stripe integration **requires** the use of Payment Method objects to correctly support Strong Customer Authentication with Stripe. If you've previously been using card tokens, you'll need to upgrade your Javascript integration.

Subscriptions that require SCA are marked as `incomplete` by default.
Once payment is authenticated, Stripe will send a webhook updating the
status of the subscription. You'll need to use the [Stripe CLI](https://github.com/stripe/stripe-cli) to forward
webhooks to your application to make sure your subscriptions work
correctly for SCA payments.

```bash
stripe listen --forward-to localhost:3000/pay/webhooks/stripe
```

You should use `stripe.handleCardSetup` on the client to collect card information anytime you want to save the card and charge them later (adding a card, then charging them on the next page for example). Use `stripe.handleCardPayment` if you'd like to charge the customer immediately (think checking out of a shopping cart).

The Javascript will now need to use createPaymentMethod instead of createToken. https://stripe.com/docs/js/payment_intents/create_payment_method

The Javascript also needs to have a PaymentIntent or SetupIntent created server-side and the ID passed into the Javascript to do this. That way it knows how to safely handle the card tokenization if it meets the SCA requirements.

**Payment Confirmations**

Sometimes you'll have a payment that requires extra authentication. In this case, Pay provides a webhook and action for handling these payments. It will automatically email the customer and provide a link with the PaymentIntent ID in the url where the customer will be asked to fill out their name and card number to confirm the payment. Once done, they'll be redirected back to your application.

If you'd like to change the views of the payment confirmation page, you can install the views using the generator and modify the template.

[<img src="https://d1jfzjx68gj8xs.cloudfront.net/items/2s3Z0J3Z3b1J1v2K2O1a/Screen%20Shot%202019-10-10%20at%2012.56.32%20PM.png?X-CloudApp-Visitor-Id=51470" alt="Stripe SCA Payment Confirmation" style="zoom: 25%;" />](https://d1jfzjx68gj8xs.cloudfront.net/items/2s3Z0J3Z3b1J1v2K2O1a/Screen%20Shot%202019-10-10%20at%2012.56.32%20PM.png)

#### Background jobs

If a user's email is updated and they have a `processor_id` set, Pay will enqueue a background job (EmailSyncJob) to sync the email with the payment processor.

It's important you set a queue_adapter for this to happen. If you don't, the code will be executed immediately upon user update. [More information here](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/v4.2/active_job_basics.html#backends)

## Usage

Include the `Pay::Billable` module in the model you want to know about subscriptions.

```ruby
# app/models/user.rb
class User < ActiveRecord::Base
  include Pay::Billable
end
```

To sync over customer names, your `Billable` model should respond to the `first_name` and `last_name` methods. Pay will sync these over to your Customer objects in Stripe and Braintree.

## Configuration

Need to make some changes to how Pay is used? You can create an initializer `config/initializers/pay.rb`

```ruby
Pay.setup do |config|
  config.billable_class = 'User'
  config.billable_table = 'users'

  config.chargeable_class = 'Pay::Charge'
  config.chargeable_table = 'pay_charges'

  # For use in the receipt/refund/renewal mailers
  config.business_name = "Business Name"
  config.business_address = "1600 Pennsylvania Avenue NW"
  config.application_name = "My App"
  config.support_email = "helpme@example.com"

  config.send_emails = true

  config.automount_routes = true
  config.routes_path = "/pay" # Only when automount_routes is true
end
```

This allows you to create your own Charge class for instance, which could add receipt functionality:

```ruby
class Charge < Pay::Charge
  def receipts
    # do some receipts stuff using the https://github.com/excid3/receipts gem
  end
end

Pay.setup do |config|
  config.chargeable_class = 'Charge'
end
```

### Credentials

You'll need to add your private Stripe API key to your Rails secrets `config/secrets.yml`, credentials `rails credentials:edit`

```yaml
development:
  stripe:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    signing_secret: zzzz
  braintree:
    private_key: xxxx
    public_key: yyyy
    merchant_id: aaaa
    environment: sandbox
```

For Stripe, you can also use the `STRIPE_PUBLIC_KEY`, `STRIPE_PRIVATE_KEY` and `STRIPE_SIGNING_SECRET` environment variables.
For Braintree, you can also use `BRAINTREE_MERCHANT_ID`, `BRAINTREE_PUBLIC_KEY`, `BRAINTREE_PRIVATE_KEY`, and `BRAINTREE_ENVIRONMENT` environment variables.

### Generators

If you want to modify the Stripe SCA template or any other views, you can copy over the view files using:

```bash
bin/rails generate pay:views
```

If you want to modify the email templates, you can copy over the view files using:

```bash
bin/rails generate pay:email_views
```

### Emails

Emails can be enabled/disabled using the `send_emails` configuration option (enabled per default). When enabled, the following emails will be sent:

- When a charge succeeded
- When a charge was refunded
- When a subscription is about to renew

## Billable API

#### Trials

You can check if the user is on a trial by simply asking:

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.on_trial? #=> true or false
```

The `on_trial?` method has two optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.on_trial?(name: 'default', plan: 'plan') #=> true or false
```

#### Generic Trials

For trials that don't require cards upfront:

```ruby
user = User.create(
  email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co',
  trial_ends_at: 30.days.from_now
)

user.on_generic_trial? #=> true
```

#### Creating a Charge

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor = 'stripe'
user.card_token = 'payment_method_id'
user.charge(1500) # $15.00 USD

user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor = 'braintree'
user.card_token = 'nonce'
user.charge(1500) # $15.00 USD
```

The `charge` method takes the amount in cents as the primary argument.

You may pass optional arguments that will be directly passed on to
either Stripe or Braintree. You can use these options to charge
different currencies, etc.

#### Creating a Subscription

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor = 'stripe'
user.card_token = 'payment_method_id'
user.subscribe
```

A `card_token` must be provided as an attribute.

The subscribe method has three optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
def subscribe(name: 'default', plan: 'default', **options)
  ...
end
```

##### Name

Name is an internally used name for the subscription.

##### Plan

Plan is the plan ID from the payment processor.

##### Options

By default, the trial specified on the subscription will be used.

`trial_period_days: 30` can be set to override and a trial to the subscription. This works the same for Braintree and Stripe.

#### Retrieving a Subscription from the Database

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'gob@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription
```

A subscription can be retrieved by name, too.

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'gob@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription(name: 'bananastand+')
```

#### Checking a User's Trial/Subscription Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'george.senior@bluthcompany.co')
user.on_trial_or_subscribed?
```

The `on_trial_or_subscribed?` method has two optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
def on_trial_or_subscribed?(name: 'default', plan: nil)
  ...
end
```

#### Checking a User's Subscription Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'george.senior@bluthcompany.co')
user.subscribed?
```

The `subscribed?` method has two optional arguments with default values.

```ruby
def subscribed?(name: 'default', plan: nil)
  ...
end
```

##### Name

Name is an internally used name for the subscription.

##### Plan

Plan is the plan ID from the payment processor.

#### Retrieving a Payment Processor Account

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'george.michael@bluthcompany.co')

user.customer #> Stripe or Braintree customer account
```

#### Updating a Customer's Credit Card

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'tobias@bluthcompany.co')

user.update_card('payment_method_id')
```

#### Retrieving a Customer's Subscription from the Processor

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'lucille@bluthcompany.co')

user.processor_subscription(subscription_id) #=> Stripe or Braintree Subscription
```

## Subscription API

#### Checking a Subscription's Trial Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'lindsay@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.on_trial? #=> true or false
```

#### Checking a Subscription's Cancellation Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'buster@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.cancelled? #=> true or false
```

#### Checking a Subscription's Grace Period Status

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'her?@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.on_grace_period? #=> true or false
```

#### Checking to See If a Subscription Is Active

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'carl.weathers@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.active? #=> true or false
```

#### Cancel a Subscription (At End of Billing Cycle)

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'oscar@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.cancel
```

#### Cancel a Subscription Immediately

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'annyong@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.cancel_now!
```

#### Swap a Subscription to another Plan

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'steve.holt@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.swap("yearly")
```

#### Resume a Subscription on a Grace Period

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'steve.holt@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.resume
```

#### Retrieving the Subscription from the Processor

```ruby
user = User.find_by(email: 'lucille2@bluthcompany.co')

user.subscription.processor_subscription
```

### Customizing Pay Models

Want to add methods to `Pay::Subscription` or `Pay::Charge`? You can
define a concern and simply include it in the model when Rails loads the
code.

Pay uses the `to_prepare` method to allow concerns to be
included every time Rails reloads the models in development as well.

```ruby
# app/models/concerns/subscription_extensions.rb
module SubscriptionExtensions
  extend ActiveSupport::Concern

  included do
    # associations and other class level things go here
  end

  # instance methods and code go here
end
```

```ruby
# config/initializers/subscription_extensions.rb

# Re-include the SubscriptionExtensions every time Rails reloads
Rails.application.config.to_prepare do
  Pay.subscription_model.include SubscriptionExtensions
end
```

## Routes & Webhooks

Routes are automatically mounted to `/pay` by default.

We provide a route for confirming SCA payments at `/pay/payments/:payment_intent_id`

Webhooks are automatically mounted at `/pay/webhooks/{provider}`

#### Customizing webhook mount path

If you have a catch all route (for 404s etc) and need to control where/when the webhook endpoints mount, you will need to disable automatic mounting and mount the engine above your catch all route.

```ruby
# config/initializers/pay.rb
config.automount_routes = false

# config/routes.rb
mount Pay::Engine, at: '/secret-webhook-path'
```

If you just want to modify where the engine mounts it's routes then you can change the path.

```ruby
# config/initializers/pay.rb

config.routes_path = '/secret-webhook-path'
```

## Contributors

- [Jason Charnes](https://twitter.com/jmcharnes)
- [Chris Oliver](https://twitter.com/excid3)

## Contributing

👋 Thanks for your interest in contributing. Feel free to fork this repo.

If you have an issue you'd like to submit, please do so using the issue tracker in GitHub. In order for us to help you in the best way possible, please be as detailed as you can.

If you'd like to open a PR please make sure the following things pass:

- `rake test`

## License

The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
